README.md, before:

# Welcome to Vast.ai’s documentation!

## Overview
This repository contains the open source python command line interface for vast.ai.
This CLI has all of the main functionality of the vast.ai website GUI and uses the
same underlying REST API. Most of the functionality is self-contained in the single
script file `vast.py`, although the invoice generating commands
require installing an additional second script called `vast_pdf.py`.

[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/vastai.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/vastai)

## Quickstart

You should probably create a subdirectory in which to put this script and related files if you
haven't already. You can call it whatever you like but I'll refer to it as "vid" for "Vast Install Directory".
So just enter `mkdir vid` to create the directory. Once you've created the directory just change your working directory to it with `cd vid`. After you've
done that the quickest way to get started is to download the `vast.py` script using the `wget` command.

```wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vast-ai/vast-python/master/vast.py; chmod +x vast.py;```

You can verify that the script is working by doing `./vast.py --help`. You should see a list of the available
commands. In order to proceed further you will need to login to the vast.ai website and get your api-key.
Go to [https://vast.ai/console/cli/](https://vast.ai/console/cli/). Copy the command under 
the heading "Login / Set API Key" and run it. The command will be something like

```./vast.py set api-key xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx```

where the `xxxx...` is your api-key (a long hexadecimal number). Note that if the script is
named "vast" in this command on the website and your installed script is named "vast.py"
you will need to change the name of the script in the command you run. The `set api-key`
command saves your api-key in a hidden file in your home directory. Do not share your
api-key with anyone as it authenticates your other vast commands to your account.

## Usage

To see how the API works you can use it to find machines for rent. `vast.py search offers`. In this
form the command will show all available offers. To get more specific results try narrowing the search.
There is a large online help page on how to do this. Bring up the help by doing `vast.py search offers --help`.
There are many parameters that can be used to filter the results. The search command supports
all of the filters and sort options that the website GUI uses. To find Turing GPU instances
(compute capability 7.0 or higher):

```./vast.py search offers 'compute_cap > 700 '```

To find instances with a reliability score >= 0.99 and at least 4 gpus, ordering by num of gpus
descending:

```./vast.py search offers 'reliability > 0.99  num_gpus>=4' -o 'num_gpus-'```

The output of this command at the time of this writing is
```
ID       CUDA  Num  Model        PCIE_BW  vCPUs     RAM  Storage  $/hr     DLPerf  DLP/$  Nvidia Driver Version  Net_up  Net_down  R      Max_Days  machine_id
1596177  11.4  10x  GTX_1080     5.5      48.0    257.9  4628     2.0000   73.0    36.5   470.63.01              653.3   854.5     99.5   -         638
2459430  11.5   8x  RTX_A5000    9.1      128.0   515.8  3094     4.0000   209.4   52.3   495.46                 1844.2  2669.6    99.7   12.0      4384
2459380  11.4   8x  RTX_3070     6.3      12.0     64.0  710      1.4200   67.2    47.3   470.86                 0.0     0.0       99.8   -         4102
2456624  11.4   8x  RTX_2080_Ti  10.7     32.0    257.9  1653     2.8000   126.4   45.2   470.82.00              14.6    214.2     99.8   28.7      3047
2456622  11.4   8x  RTX_2080_Ti  10.8     32.0    128.9  1651     2.8000   127.1   45.4   470.82.00              14.9    214.7     99.1   28.7      1569
2456600  11.5   8x  RTX_2080_Ti  10.9     48.0    256.6  1704     2.4000   125.5   52.3   495.29.05              169.0   169.8     99.7   25.7      4058
2455617  11.2   8x  RTX_3090     21.7     64.0    515.8  6165     6.4000   261.1   40.8   460.67                 477.6   707.2     99.8   28.7      2980
2454397  11.2   8x  A100_SXM4    22.4     128.0  2064.1  21568    13.2000  300.1   22.7   460.106.00             708.7   1119.8    99.2   -         4762
2405590  11.4   8x  RTX_2080_Ti  11.2     48.0    257.9  1629     3.8000   125.5   33.0   470.82.00              389.4   608.8     100.0  1.8       2776
2364579  11.4   8x  A100_PCIE    18.5     128.0   515.8  4813     14.8000  278.8   18.8   470.74                 472.4   699.0     99.9   28.7      3459
2281839  11.2   8x  Tesla_V100   11.8     72.0    483.1  1171     5.6000   193.6   34.6   460.67                 493.0   697.8     100.0  28.7      2744
2281832  11.2   8x  A100_PCIE    17.7     64.0    515.9  5821     14.8000  276.7   18.7   460.91.03              478.2   655.5     99.9   28.7      2901
2452630  11.4   7x  RTX_3090     6.3      28.0     64.0  61       3.5000   165.5   47.3   470.86                 84.6    84.4      99.3   3.8       4420
2342561  11.4   7x  RTX_3090     6.1      96.0    257.6  1664     4.5500   149.2   32.8   470.82.00              476.9   671.7     99.4   1.7       4202
2237983  11.4   7x  RTX_3090     12.5     32.0    257.6  3228     3.1500   204.5   64.9   470.86                 194.4   183.8     99.1   -         4207
2459511  11.4   6x  RTX_3090     6.2      -       128.8  812      2.8200   150.2   53.2   470.94                 374.4   271.4     99.0   6.7       3129
2448342  11.5   6x  RTX_A6000    12.4     64.0    515.7  6695     3.6000   169.8   47.2   495.29.05              668.6   1082.6    99.6   -         3624
2437565  11.4   6x  RTX_3090     23.0     16.0    128.8  1676     5.4000   196.8   36.5   470.94                 34.1    131.5     99.4   -         4238
2332973  11.2   6x  RTX_3090     11.9     48.0    193.3  1671     3.3000   180.3   54.6   460.84                 582.1   737.6     99.9   25.6      3552
2459459  11.5   4x  RTX_3090     23.1     32.0    257.8  1363     2.0000   131.2   65.6   495.46                 1954.7  2725.8    99.6   12.0      3059
2459428  11.5   4x  RTX_A5000    24.6     64.0    515.8  1547     2.0000   104.9   52.4   495.46                 1844.2  2669.6    99.7   12.0      4384
2459368  11.4   4x  RTX_3090     25.3     48.0     64.2  133      1.3967   130.5   93.4   470.86                 0.0     0.0       99.4   -         4637
2458968  11.6   4x  RTX_3090     11.7     16.0    128.5  752      1.4000   79.8    57.0   510.39.01              797.8   842.7     99.9   4.0       2555
2458878  11.6   4x  RTX_3090     11.6     36.0    128.5  1531     1.4000   81.9    58.5   510.39.01              757.1   807.6     99.9   4.0       3646
2458845  11.6   4x  RTX_3090     3.1      12.0    128.5  369      1.4000   92.4    66.0   510.39.01              725.7   852.2     99.8   4.0       700
2458838  11.6   4x  RTX_3090     5.7      48.0    128.9  624      1.4000   85.3    60.9   510.39.01              574.9   731.7     99.8   4.0       2217
2454395  11.2   4x  A100_SXM4    22.9     64.0   2064.1  10784    6.6000   150.0   22.7   460.106.00             708.7   1119.8    99.2   -         4762
2452632  11.4   4x  RTX_3090     6.3      16.0     64.0  35       2.0000   123.5   61.8   470.86                 84.6    84.4      99.3   3.8       4420
2450275  11.4   4x  RTX_3080_Ti  12.5     32.0    128.7  817      1.8000   128.8   71.6   470.82.00              278.3   350.4     99.7   -         4260
2449210  11.5   4x  RTX_3090     11.2     48.0    128.9  324      2.0000   89.7    44.9   495.29.05              688.3   775.4     99.8   -         2764
2445175  11.4   4x  RTX_3090     11.9     32.0    257.6  1530     2.0000   135.4   67.7   470.86                 868.6   887.1     99.7   25.9      3055
2444916  11.4   4x  RTX_3090     11.9     16.0    128.7  1576     1.4000   131.8   94.2   470.82.00              39.4    402.3     99.9   -         3759
2437188  11.4   4x  Tesla_P100   11.7     24.0     95.2  2945     0.7200   44.8    62.2   470.82.00              10.9    76.2      99.5   0.1       3969
2437179  11.4   4x  Tesla_P100   11.7     32.0    192.1  3070     0.7200   44.8    62.3   470.82.00              11.1    66.0      99.2   0.0       4159
2431606  11.4   4x  RTX_3090     17.9     32.0    110.7  330      1.8400   134.3   73.0   470.82.01              584.6   813.4     99.7   4.4       4079
2419191  11.4   4x  RTX_2080_Ti  6.3      32.0     64.4  837      2.0000   64.7    32.4   470.63.01              40.5    205.9     99.7   -         162
2405589  11.4   4x  RTX_2080_Ti  10.8     24.0    257.9  815      1.9000   62.8    33.0   470.82.00              389.4   608.8     100.0  1.8       2776
2392087  11.4   4x  RTX_A6000    10.8     32.0    515.9  1247     1.8000   64.5    35.8   470.94                 669.9   705.4     99.1   10.9      4782
2377227  11.2   4x  RTX_3090     6.3      24.0     64.3  1638     2.0000   128.3   64.1   460.32.03              37.8    145.0     99.7   3.0       2672
2349173  11.4   4x  RTX_3090     23.2     48.0    128.7  1475     2.0000   107.4   53.7   470.86                 33.2    84.2      99.8   47.3      3949
2338635  11.4   4x  RTX_3090     23.0     32.0    128.5  3151     1.6000   108.8   68.0   470.86                 33.8    86.4      99.6   47.4      3948
2303959  11.2   4x  RTX_3090     11.7     28.0    128.8  791      2.1200   131.3   61.9   460.32.03              519.7   570.7     99.5   -         3042
2281830  11.2   4x  A100_PCIE    18.1     32.0    515.9  2910     7.4000   143.6   19.4   460.91.03              478.2   655.5     99.9   28.7      2901
2193726  11.4   4x  RTX_3090     12.4     32.0    128.8  1646     3.6000   153.9   42.8   470.82.01              33.3    137.5     99.5   -         3434
1737692  11.2   4x  RTX_3070     6.3      28.0    128.5  656      2.8000   37.5    13.4   460.91.03              452.6   703.2     99.6   -         3510
```

#### Launching Instances
To create an instance of type 2459368 (using an ID from the search) with the vastai/tensorflow image
and 32 GB of disk storage

```./vast.py create instance 2459368 --image vastai/tensorflow --disk 32```

## Install

If you followed the instructions in [Quickstart](#Quickstart) you have already installed the script that contains
most of the CLI functionality. If you wish to print PDF format invoices you will need a few other
things. First, you'll need the vast_pdf.py script. This can be found in this repository in the main
directory at [vast_pdf.py](vast_pdf.py). This script should be present in the same directory as the
`vast.py` script. It makes use of a third party library called Borb to create the PDF invoices. To install
this run the command `pip3 install borb`

## Commands

The CLI API is all contained in a python script called `vast.py`.
This script can be called with various commands as arguments. Commands follow
a simple "verb-object" pattern. As an example, consider "show machines". To run this
command we type `./vast.py show machines`

## List of commands and associated help message

```
usage: vast.py [-h] [--url URL] [--retry RETRY] [--raw] [--explain] [--api-key API_KEY] command ...

positional arguments:
  command               command to run. one of:
    help                print this help message
    attach ssh          Attach an ssh key to an instance. This will allow you to connect to the instance with the ssh key.
    cancel copy         Cancel a remote copy in progress, specified by DST id
    cancel sync         Cancel a remote copy in progress, specified by DST id
    change bid          Change the bid price for a spot/interruptible instance
    copy                Copy directories between instances and/or local
    cloud copy          Copy files/folders to and from cloud providers
    create api-key      Create a new api-key with restricted permissions. Can be sent to other users and teammates
    create ssh-key      Create a new ssh-key
    create autoscaler   Create a new autoscale group
    create endpoint     Create a new endpoint group
    create instance     Create a new instance
    create env-var      Create a new user environment variable
    create subaccount   Create a subaccount
    create team         Create a new team
    create team-role    Add a new role to your
    create template     Create a new template
    delete api-key      Remove an api-key
    delete env-var      Delete a user environment variable
    delete ssh-key      Remove an ssh-key
    delete autoscaler   Delete an autoscaler group
    delete endpoint     Delete an endpoint group
    destroy instance    Destroy an instance (irreversible, deletes data)
    destroy instances   Destroy a list of instances (irreversible, deletes data)
    destroy team        Destroy your team
    detach ssh          Detach an ssh key from an instance
    execute             Execute a (constrained) remote command on a machine
    invite team-member  Invite a team member
    label instance      Assign a string label to an instance
    logs                Get the logs for an instance
    prepay instance     Deposit credits into reserved instance.
    reboot instance     Reboot (stop/start) an instance
    recycle instance    Recycle (destroy/create) an instance
    remove team-member  Remove a team member
    remove team-role    Remove a role from your team
    reports             Get the user reports for a given machine
    reset api-key       Reset your api-key (get new key from website).
    start instance      Start a stopped instance
    start instances     Start a list of instances
    stop instance       Stop a running instance
    stop instances      Stop a list of instances
    search benchmarks   Search for benchmark results using custom query
    search invoices     Search for benchmark results using custom query
    search offers       Search for instance types using custom query
    search templates    Search for template results using custom query
    set api-key         Set api-key (get your api-key from the console/CLI)
    set user            Update user data from json file
    ssh-url             ssh url helper
    scp-url             scp url helper
    show api-key        Show an api-key
    show api-keys       List your api-keys associated with your account
    show ssh-keys       List your ssh keys associated with your account
    show autoscalers    Display user's current autoscaler groups
    show endpoints      Display user's current endpoint groups
    show connections    Displays user's cloud connections
    show deposit        Display reserve deposit info for an instance
    show earnings       Get machine earning history reports
    show invoices       Get billing history reports
    show instance       Display user's current instances
    show instances      Display user's current instances
    show ipaddrs        Display user's history of ip addresses
    show user           Get current user data
    show subaccounts    Get current subaccounts
    show env-vars       Show user environment variables
    show team-members   Show your team members
    show team-role      Show your team role
    show team-roles     Show roles for a team
    transfer credit     Transfer credits to another account
    update autoscaler   Update an existing autoscale group
    update endpoint     Update an existing endpoint group
    update team-role    Update an existing team role
    update env-var      Update an existing user environment variable
    update ssh-key      Update an existing ssh key
    generate pdf-invoices
    cleanup machine     [Host] Remove all expired storage instances from the machine, freeing up space.
    list machine        [Host] list a machine for rent
    list machines       [Host] list machines for rent
    remove defjob       [Host] Delete default jobs
    set defjob          [Host] Create default jobs for a machine
    set min-bid         [Host] Set the minimum bid/rental price for a machine
    schedule maint      [Host] Schedule upcoming maint window
    cancel maint        [Host] Cancel maint window
    show machines       [Host] Show hosted machines
    unlist machine      [Host] Unlist a listed machine
    launch instance     Launch the top instance from the search offers based on the given parameters

options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --url URL             server REST api url
  --retry RETRY         retry limit
  --raw                 output machine-readable json
  --explain             output verbose explanation of mapping of CLI calls to HTTPS API endpoints
  --api-key API_KEY     api key. defaults to using the one stored in ~/.vast_api_key

Use 'vast COMMAND --help' for more info about a command
```

----

Commit message:

Documentation of the tab complete

README.md, after:

# Welcome to Vast.ai’s documentation!

## Overview
This repository contains the open source python command line interface for vast.ai.
This CLI has all of the main functionality of the vast.ai website GUI and uses the
same underlying REST API. Most of the functionality is self-contained in the single
script file `vast.py`, although the invoice generating commands
require installing an additional second script called `vast_pdf.py`.

[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/vastai.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/vastai)

## Quickstart

You should probably create a subdirectory in which to put this script and related files if you
haven't already. You can call it whatever you like but I'll refer to it as "vid" for "Vast Install Directory".
So just enter `mkdir vid` to create the directory. Once you've created the directory just change your working directory to it with `cd vid`. After you've
done that the quickest way to get started is to download the `vast.py` script using the `wget` command.

```wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vast-ai/vast-python/master/vast.py; chmod +x vast.py;```

You can verify that the script is working by doing `./vast.py --help`. You should see a list of the available
commands. In order to proceed further you will need to login to the vast.ai website and get your api-key.
Go to [https://vast.ai/console/cli/](https://vast.ai/console/cli/). Copy the command under 
the heading "Login / Set API Key" and run it. The command will be something like

```./vast.py set api-key xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx```

where the `xxxx...` is your api-key (a long hexadecimal number). Note that if the script is
named "vast" in this command on the website and your installed script is named "vast.py"
you will need to change the name of the script in the command you run. The `set api-key`
command saves your api-key in a hidden file in your home directory. Do not share your
api-key with anyone as it authenticates your other vast commands to your account.

## Usage

To see how the API works you can use it to find machines for rent. `vast.py search offers`. In this
form the command will show all available offers. To get more specific results try narrowing the search.
There is a large online help page on how to do this. Bring up the help by doing `vast.py search offers --help`.
There are many parameters that can be used to filter the results. The search command supports
all of the filters and sort options that the website GUI uses. To find Turing GPU instances
(compute capability 7.0 or higher):

```./vast.py search offers 'compute_cap > 700 '```

To find instances with a reliability score >= 0.99 and at least 4 gpus, ordering by num of gpus
descending:

```./vast.py search offers 'reliability > 0.99  num_gpus>=4' -o 'num_gpus-'```

The output of this command at the time of this writing is
```
ID       CUDA  Num  Model        PCIE_BW  vCPUs     RAM  Storage  $/hr     DLPerf  DLP/$  Nvidia Driver Version  Net_up  Net_down  R      Max_Days  machine_id
1596177  11.4  10x  GTX_1080     5.5      48.0    257.9  4628     2.0000   73.0    36.5   470.63.01              653.3   854.5     99.5   -         638
2459430  11.5   8x  RTX_A5000    9.1      128.0   515.8  3094     4.0000   209.4   52.3   495.46                 1844.2  2669.6    99.7   12.0      4384
2459380  11.4   8x  RTX_3070     6.3      12.0     64.0  710      1.4200   67.2    47.3   470.86                 0.0     0.0       99.8   -         4102
2456624  11.4   8x  RTX_2080_Ti  10.7     32.0    257.9  1653     2.8000   126.4   45.2   470.82.00              14.6    214.2     99.8   28.7      3047
2456622  11.4   8x  RTX_2080_Ti  10.8     32.0    128.9  1651     2.8000   127.1   45.4   470.82.00              14.9    214.7     99.1   28.7      1569
2456600  11.5   8x  RTX_2080_Ti  10.9     48.0    256.6  1704     2.4000   125.5   52.3   495.29.05              169.0   169.8     99.7   25.7      4058
2455617  11.2   8x  RTX_3090     21.7     64.0    515.8  6165     6.4000   261.1   40.8   460.67                 477.6   707.2     99.8   28.7      2980
2454397  11.2   8x  A100_SXM4    22.4     128.0  2064.1  21568    13.2000  300.1   22.7   460.106.00             708.7   1119.8    99.2   -         4762
2405590  11.4   8x  RTX_2080_Ti  11.2     48.0    257.9  1629     3.8000   125.5   33.0   470.82.00              389.4   608.8     100.0  1.8       2776
2364579  11.4   8x  A100_PCIE    18.5     128.0   515.8  4813     14.8000  278.8   18.8   470.74                 472.4   699.0     99.9   28.7      3459
2281839  11.2   8x  Tesla_V100   11.8     72.0    483.1  1171     5.6000   193.6   34.6   460.67                 493.0   697.8     100.0  28.7      2744
2281832  11.2   8x  A100_PCIE    17.7     64.0    515.9  5821     14.8000  276.7   18.7   460.91.03              478.2   655.5     99.9   28.7      2901
2452630  11.4   7x  RTX_3090     6.3      28.0     64.0  61       3.5000   165.5   47.3   470.86                 84.6    84.4      99.3   3.8       4420
2342561  11.4   7x  RTX_3090     6.1      96.0    257.6  1664     4.5500   149.2   32.8   470.82.00              476.9   671.7     99.4   1.7       4202
2237983  11.4   7x  RTX_3090     12.5     32.0    257.6  3228     3.1500   204.5   64.9   470.86                 194.4   183.8     99.1   -         4207
2459511  11.4   6x  RTX_3090     6.2      -       128.8  812      2.8200   150.2   53.2   470.94                 374.4   271.4     99.0   6.7       3129
2448342  11.5   6x  RTX_A6000    12.4     64.0    515.7  6695     3.6000   169.8   47.2   495.29.05              668.6   1082.6    99.6   -         3624
2437565  11.4   6x  RTX_3090     23.0     16.0    128.8  1676     5.4000   196.8   36.5   470.94                 34.1    131.5     99.4   -         4238
2332973  11.2   6x  RTX_3090     11.9     48.0    193.3  1671     3.3000   180.3   54.6   460.84                 582.1   737.6     99.9   25.6      3552
2459459  11.5   4x  RTX_3090     23.1     32.0    257.8  1363     2.0000   131.2   65.6   495.46                 1954.7  2725.8    99.6   12.0      3059
2459428  11.5   4x  RTX_A5000    24.6     64.0    515.8  1547     2.0000   104.9   52.4   495.46                 1844.2  2669.6    99.7   12.0      4384
2459368  11.4   4x  RTX_3090     25.3     48.0     64.2  133      1.3967   130.5   93.4   470.86                 0.0     0.0       99.4   -         4637
2458968  11.6   4x  RTX_3090     11.7     16.0    128.5  752      1.4000   79.8    57.0   510.39.01              797.8   842.7     99.9   4.0       2555
2458878  11.6   4x  RTX_3090     11.6     36.0    128.5  1531     1.4000   81.9    58.5   510.39.01              757.1   807.6     99.9   4.0       3646
2458845  11.6   4x  RTX_3090     3.1      12.0    128.5  369      1.4000   92.4    66.0   510.39.01              725.7   852.2     99.8   4.0       700
2458838  11.6   4x  RTX_3090     5.7      48.0    128.9  624      1.4000   85.3    60.9   510.39.01              574.9   731.7     99.8   4.0       2217
2454395  11.2   4x  A100_SXM4    22.9     64.0   2064.1  10784    6.6000   150.0   22.7   460.106.00             708.7   1119.8    99.2   -         4762
2452632  11.4   4x  RTX_3090     6.3      16.0     64.0  35       2.0000   123.5   61.8   470.86                 84.6    84.4      99.3   3.8       4420
2450275  11.4   4x  RTX_3080_Ti  12.5     32.0    128.7  817      1.8000   128.8   71.6   470.82.00              278.3   350.4     99.7   -         4260
2449210  11.5   4x  RTX_3090     11.2     48.0    128.9  324      2.0000   89.7    44.9   495.29.05              688.3   775.4     99.8   -         2764
2445175  11.4   4x  RTX_3090     11.9     32.0    257.6  1530     2.0000   135.4   67.7   470.86                 868.6   887.1     99.7   25.9      3055
2444916  11.4   4x  RTX_3090     11.9     16.0    128.7  1576     1.4000   131.8   94.2   470.82.00              39.4    402.3     99.9   -         3759
2437188  11.4   4x  Tesla_P100   11.7     24.0     95.2  2945     0.7200   44.8    62.2   470.82.00              10.9    76.2      99.5   0.1       3969
2437179  11.4   4x  Tesla_P100   11.7     32.0    192.1  3070     0.7200   44.8    62.3   470.82.00              11.1    66.0      99.2   0.0       4159
2431606  11.4   4x  RTX_3090     17.9     32.0    110.7  330      1.8400   134.3   73.0   470.82.01              584.6   813.4     99.7   4.4       4079
2419191  11.4   4x  RTX_2080_Ti  6.3      32.0     64.4  837      2.0000   64.7    32.4   470.63.01              40.5    205.9     99.7   -         162
2405589  11.4   4x  RTX_2080_Ti  10.8     24.0    257.9  815      1.9000   62.8    33.0   470.82.00              389.4   608.8     100.0  1.8       2776
2392087  11.4   4x  RTX_A6000    10.8     32.0    515.9  1247     1.8000   64.5    35.8   470.94                 669.9   705.4     99.1   10.9      4782
2377227  11.2   4x  RTX_3090     6.3      24.0     64.3  1638     2.0000   128.3   64.1   460.32.03              37.8    145.0     99.7   3.0       2672
2349173  11.4   4x  RTX_3090     23.2     48.0    128.7  1475     2.0000   107.4   53.7   470.86                 33.2    84.2      99.8   47.3      3949
2338635  11.4   4x  RTX_3090     23.0     32.0    128.5  3151     1.6000   108.8   68.0   470.86                 33.8    86.4      99.6   47.4      3948
2303959  11.2   4x  RTX_3090     11.7     28.0    128.8  791      2.1200   131.3   61.9   460.32.03              519.7   570.7     99.5   -         3042
2281830  11.2   4x  A100_PCIE    18.1     32.0    515.9  2910     7.4000   143.6   19.4   460.91.03              478.2   655.5     99.9   28.7      2901
2193726  11.4   4x  RTX_3090     12.4     32.0    128.8  1646     3.6000   153.9   42.8   470.82.01              33.3    137.5     99.5   -         3434
1737692  11.2   4x  RTX_3070     6.3      28.0    128.5  656      2.8000   37.5    13.4   460.91.03              452.6   703.2     99.6   -         3510
```

#### Launching Instances
To create an instance of type 2459368 (using an ID from the search) with the vastai/tensorflow image
and 32 GB of disk storage

```./vast.py create instance 2459368 --image vastai/tensorflow --disk 32```

## Install

If you followed the instructions in [Quickstart](#Quickstart) you have already installed the script that contains
most of the CLI functionality. If you wish to print PDF format invoices you will need a few other
things. First, you'll need the vast_pdf.py script. This can be found in this repository in the main
directory at [vast_pdf.py](vast_pdf.py). This script should be present in the same directory as the
`vast.py` script. It makes use of a third party library called Borb to create the PDF invoices. To install
this run the command `pip3 install borb`

## Commands

The CLI API is all contained in a python script called `vast.py`.
This script can be called with various commands as arguments. Commands follow
a simple "verb-object" pattern. As an example, consider "show machines". To run this
command we type `./vast.py show machines`

## List of commands and associated help message

```
usage: vast.py [-h] [--url URL] [--retry RETRY] [--raw] [--explain] [--api-key API_KEY] command ...

positional arguments:
  command               command to run. one of:
    help                print this help message
    attach ssh          Attach an ssh key to an instance. This will allow you to connect to the instance with the ssh key.
    cancel copy         Cancel a remote copy in progress, specified by DST id
    cancel sync         Cancel a remote copy in progress, specified by DST id
    change bid          Change the bid price for a spot/interruptible instance
    copy                Copy directories between instances and/or local
    cloud copy          Copy files/folders to and from cloud providers
    create api-key      Create a new api-key with restricted permissions. Can be sent to other users and teammates
    create ssh-key      Create a new ssh-key
    create autoscaler   Create a new autoscale group
    create endpoint     Create a new endpoint group
    create instance     Create a new instance
    create env-var      Create a new user environment variable
    create subaccount   Create a subaccount
    create team         Create a new team
    create team-role    Add a new role to your
    create template     Create a new template
    delete api-key      Remove an api-key
    delete env-var      Delete a user environment variable
    delete ssh-key      Remove an ssh-key
    delete autoscaler   Delete an autoscaler group
    delete endpoint     Delete an endpoint group
    destroy instance    Destroy an instance (irreversible, deletes data)
    destroy instances   Destroy a list of instances (irreversible, deletes data)
    destroy team        Destroy your team
    detach ssh          Detach an ssh key from an instance
    execute             Execute a (constrained) remote command on a machine
    invite team-member  Invite a team member
    label instance      Assign a string label to an instance
    logs                Get the logs for an instance
    prepay instance     Deposit credits into reserved instance.
    reboot instance     Reboot (stop/start) an instance
    recycle instance    Recycle (destroy/create) an instance
    remove team-member  Remove a team member
    remove team-role    Remove a role from your team
    reports             Get the user reports for a given machine
    reset api-key       Reset your api-key (get new key from website).
    start instance      Start a stopped instance
    start instances     Start a list of instances
    stop instance       Stop a running instance
    stop instances      Stop a list of instances
    search benchmarks   Search for benchmark results using custom query
    search invoices     Search for benchmark results using custom query
    search offers       Search for instance types using custom query
    search templates    Search for template results using custom query
    set api-key         Set api-key (get your api-key from the console/CLI)
    set user            Update user data from json file
    ssh-url             ssh url helper
    scp-url             scp url helper
    show api-key        Show an api-key
    show api-keys       List your api-keys associated with your account
    show ssh-keys       List your ssh keys associated with your account
    show autoscalers    Display user's current autoscaler groups
    show endpoints      Display user's current endpoint groups
    show connections    Displays user's cloud connections
    show deposit        Display reserve deposit info for an instance
    show earnings       Get machine earning history reports
    show invoices       Get billing history reports
    show instance       Display user's current instances
    show instances      Display user's current instances
    show ipaddrs        Display user's history of ip addresses
    show user           Get current user data
    show subaccounts    Get current subaccounts
    show env-vars       Show user environment variables
    show team-members   Show your team members
    show team-role      Show your team role
    show team-roles     Show roles for a team
    transfer credit     Transfer credits to another account
    update autoscaler   Update an existing autoscale group
    update endpoint     Update an existing endpoint group
    update team-role    Update an existing team role
    update env-var      Update an existing user environment variable
    update ssh-key      Update an existing ssh key
    generate pdf-invoices
    cleanup machine     [Host] Remove all expired storage instances from the machine, freeing up space.
    list machine        [Host] list a machine for rent
    list machines       [Host] list machines for rent
    remove defjob       [Host] Delete default jobs
    set defjob          [Host] Create default jobs for a machine
    set min-bid         [Host] Set the minimum bid/rental price for a machine
    schedule maint      [Host] Schedule upcoming maint window
    cancel maint        [Host] Cancel maint window
    show machines       [Host] Show hosted machines
    unlist machine      [Host] Unlist a listed machine
    launch instance     Launch the top instance from the search offers based on the given parameters

options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --url URL             server REST api url
  --retry RETRY         retry limit
  --raw                 output machine-readable json
  --explain             output verbose explanation of mapping of CLI calls to HTTPS API endpoints
  --api-key API_KEY     api key. defaults to using the one stored in ~/.vast_api_key

Use 'vast COMMAND --help' for more info about a command
```

## Tab-Completion
Vast.py has optional tab completion in both the Bash and Zsh shell if the [argcomplete](https://github.com/kislyuk/argcomplete) package is installed. To enable this first install the `argcomplete` pip then either run `activate-global-python-argcomplete` to install global handlers or, for a local shell instance, `eval "$(register-python-argcomplete vast.py)"`. If necessary, change `vast.py` to whatever name you've assigned to invoke the tool as you are instrumenting the shell to autocomplete upon a certain command.

As a caveat, although we haven't seen it in the wild, as api calls may be executed with the tab complete, invoking it too rapidly could trigger a rate limit. Please report it in the github issues tab if you encounter it or other unexpected behavior.
